# Geolocation API Automation Framework
#### This framework is designed to automate the testing of Geolocation APIs using various modern testing tools and technologies. The framework is built on top of RestAssured and Java and utilizes Cucumber for BDD, TestNG for test execution, and Extent Reports for test reporting.

## Tech Stack
- RestAssured: For API testing.
- Java: Core programming language.
- Maven: For project dependency management.
- Cucumber: For behavior-driven development (BDD).
- TestNG: For test configuration and execution.
- Extent Reports: For detailed test reporting.


## Folder Structure

```
├── src
│   ├── test
│   │   ├── java
│   │   │   ├── DTOs
│   │   │   ├── runner
│   │   │   ├── stepDefinitions
│   │   │   ├── utils
│   │   ├── resources
│   │   │   ├── config
│   │   │   │   ├── config.properties
│   │   │   │   ├── cucumber.properties
│   │   │   ├── features
│   │   │   ├── extent.properties
│   │   │   ├── extent-config.xml
│   │   │   ├── log4j.properties
├── pom.xml
├── testng.xml
└── Extent_report
└── extent.html 
```

## Directory and File Descriptions
- src/test/java: Contains the Java source code for the test automation framework.
- DTOs: Data Transfer Objects used to map JSON responses to Java objects.
- runner: Contains the Cucumber runner classes that set up and trigger test execution.
- stepDefinitions: Houses the step definition classes where Cucumber steps are implemented.
- utils: Utility classes providing reusable methods and helpers.
- src/test/resources: Contains configuration files and feature files for the tests.
- config: Holds the main configuration files.
- config.properties: Main configuration properties for the framework.
- cucumber.properties: Cucumber-specific configurations.
- features: Cucumber feature files describing test scenarios in Gherkin syntax.
- extent.properties: Configuration properties for Extent Reports.
- extent-config.xml: Custom XML configuration for Extent Reports layout and appearance.
- log4j.properties: Configuration for Log4j, handling logging throughout the framework.
- pom.xml: Maven Project Object Model file, managing dependencies and build configurations.
- testng.xml: TestNG suite configuration file, defining the test execution flow.
- Extent_report/extent.html: The final HTML report generated by Extent Reports, detailing test execution results.

## Getting Started
### Prerequisites
- Java 17 or higher
- Maven 3.x
- IDE of your choice (IntelliJ, Eclipse, etc.)

### Installation

#### Clone the Repository:

````
git clone <repository-url> 
````

#### Navigate to the Project Directory:

````
cd geolocation-api-automation
````

#### Install Maven Dependencies:

````
mvn clean install
````

### Running the Tests
#### Using Maven Command:

````
mvn test
````

#### Using TestNG:

- You can run the tests through the testng.xml file from your IDE or via the command line:

````
mvn test -DsuiteXmlFile=testng.xml
````

#### IntelliJ Execution:

- Right click on `testng.xml` file and click on run as `testng.xml`

### Generating Reports
- After test execution, the Extent Report will be generated in the Extent_report directory as extent.html.
Configuration
- config.properties: Update this file to modify API base URLs, authentication details, or other environment-specific configurations.
- cucumber.properties: Modify this file to configure Cucumber options like glue paths, dry run, etc.
- extent-config.xml: Customize the look and feel of the Extent Reports.